# GraceBibleChurchApp


#Setting up environment for the app: You can skip these three steps for now. These are just for when you actually need to build the code into an Android or iOS app.
#You can run the application on your laptop since it's just HTML, CSS, and Javascript.
1. After cloning the repo, follow the instructions here to install Cordova: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/cordova/cordova_environment_setup.htm.
Cordova is the tool that I am using to be able to use HTML/Javascript/CSS to create an app for Android and iOS. Cordova is  what is being used to build the exectuable for Android and iOS.  Instructions for setting up environment for iOS: https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/latest/guide/platforms/ios/index.html#installing-the-requirements (haven't done yet). Instructions for setting up environment for Android: https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/latest/guide/platforms/android/index.html#installing-the-requirements
2. When you are ready to build the app into either an Android or iOS app, and have Android Studio or Xcode installed, in command prompt, run the command "cordova platform add android" to add the files necessary to build to android, and "cordova platform add ios" to add the files necessary to build to iOS. For ios, currently using Cordova ios 5.1.1. Runt the following command to install Cordova ios 5.1.1: cordova platform add ios@5.1.1.
3. To build to android (will generate the android executable), run "cordova build android" in command prompt. To build to ios (only on MAC), run "cordova build ios".
4. For Android: To install the app on a connected Android device, run "cordova run android" in command prompt.

Background information on a deeper explanation of what Cordova is, if you're interested: https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/latest/guide/overview/index.html

#Explanation of the code:
1. The code for the app (HTML,js,CSS), is in the wwww folder. To view the page, just open up www/index.html in the browser, and you will see the same thing
that I showed in the video. www/css and www/js have the css and javascript for the page. www/index.js has the actual javascript logic, and www/index.css has the css for the page. The other javascript and css files are just libraries.
2. The hooks, node_modes,and plugins folders are all generated by Cordova. We shouldn't have to modify anything in these folders.
3. I'm using the Bootstrap library: https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.5/components/. It provides functionality that makes the UI mobile friendly. The swipe functionality
and the ability to jump straight to a card is from Bootstrap's carousel componenet: https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.5/components/carousel/. They also have functionality for a "hamburger expandable menu" (https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.5/components/navbar/). I've used Bootstrap many times in the past, it's a very solid library.
4. The config.xml is generated by Cordova. It contains information such as what the App is called, and the various plugins that the app is using. We probably won't need
to modify this since our app isn't going to need any plugins as we will not be doing things like accessing the camera or file system. package-lock.json and package.json are also generated by Cordova. We also probably won't need to modify these files.

Currently using Cordova ios 5.1.1.
